# mosaic
This program creates a photomosaic from images dataset by finding the closest matching patch.
Main goal of this project was to create a photomosaic: divide the original image into smaller pieces, so that it consists of other different smaller images. Mosaic was implemented with squares. Squares are of size 20, to change it, you can replace the value at line 8. The smaller the piece size, smoother the output image.
To get a good photomosaic, high quality input picture should be used. I used the [Snivy pokemon’s picture](https://wall.alphacoders.com/tag/4k-snivy-%28pokemon%29-wallpapers?lang=Dutch) as an input. The input.jpg should be stored in the same directory as the main.py. I took a [Pokemon images dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sachsene/pokemons) as a base. It was slightly modified, I added and deleted some pictures. There are total of 347 files in the dataset. Dataset should also be in the same project directory.
First, the program reads the input image and gets its height and width. It then iterates through all the images in dataset folder and resizes the images. Along with that it calculates the average color of each image and stores them in an avg_color array. Resized images are also stored in the dataset array.
After parsing the dataset, program takes the input image, divides its height and width by the patch size and parses through it by column and row cartesian product. At every iteration, program chooses a square from the input image, calculates its average color, finds the Euclidian distance from the average colors from dataset images, and takes the index of the closest matching image. Then the square of an input image is replaced with the image from dataset array.
Final image is written into output.jpg and is stored in the project directory.
